# Arrays
## Day 5

### Warm up
* Discuss student account generator code part 1
* Discuss code with vocabulary: arrays, index, value, blocks, loops, iterator, variable assignment

### Discussion
* Recap loops from last week
* Review storing and retrieving data from an array
* Review iterating over an array

### Exercise
* Word problems for storing and retrieving data in an array
* Powers of 2
* Members of your family in age order

#### Write code using arrays for the problems below.

##### Required Problems
1. Create an array to store 5 names. Have the user enter in the 5 names and then print out the 5 names in all UPPERCASE all on the same line. Note that the user may not enter all the names in uppercase.
1. Create an array to store 3 boolean values entered in by the user. Print out YES if all the values are true and NO if at least one value is false.
1. Create an array to store the following words: firetruck, fire drill, fire hydrant, firefighter, fireproof, fire station, fire hose. Print out the contents of the array without the word “fire”. 
1. Create an array to store the amount of money spent on 4 family members during the Holidays. Have the user enter in the amount spent on each member. Print the total spent on all the family members. Total money spent should be displayed with a dollar sign, decimal point, and only 2 digits after the decimal.
1. Create an array to store 5 random numbers (between 1 and 10 inclusive) generated by the computer. Print out the square of each of the numbers.
1. Create an array to store 5000 decimal numbers. Randomly generate numbers from [0-1) to fill the array. Calculate and print the mean. 

##### Optional Problems
1. Create an array of people that are invited to a party. (Use the shortcut initialization with {}s). Allow the user to ask if a certain person is invited to the party.  If the person is on the invitation list respond INVITED otherwise respond NOT INVITED.
1. Have the user enter in a sentence.  Then, using an array, store the frequency of each letter of the alphabet from the sentence.  Print out the frequency of each letter. Do not count uppercase and lowercase letters differently.
1. Create an array of size 8.  Fill the array randomly with 0’s and 1’s.  Print out the array so that it appears as a binary number.  Calculate and print out the decimal value of that binary number.


### Debrief
* Reviewing the exercises and pain points
